Hi everybody, welcome to the Data Science Hangout.
If we haven't met before, I'm Rachel Dempsey, I'm the host of our Hangout here and I lead
customer marketing at Posit.
This is our open space to chat about data science leadership, questions you're facing,
and getting to hear about what's going on in the world of data across different industries.
So we're here every Thursday at the same time, same place.
So if you are watching this on YouTube at some point in the future, and you want to
join us live, there'll be a link in the details below where you can add it to your calendar.
At the Hangouts, we're all dedicated to making this a welcoming environment for everybody.
So we love to hear from everyone, no matter your years of experience, your titles, your
industry, or the languages that you work in too.
It's totally okay to just listen in here as well.
I know sometimes people will be out for a walk, maybe you're on your lunch break or
it's later in your day.
And there's always three ways, though, that you could jump in and ask questions or provide
your own perspective.
So one, you could jump in by raising your hand here on Zoom, and I'll be on the lookout.
Two, you could put questions into the Zoom chat.
And if it's something you wanted me to read instead, just put a little star next to it.
And then three, we also have a Slido link, which I'm sure Curtis or someone from the
team will share in just a second here, where you can ask questions anonymously too.
But with all that, thank you for spending your Thursday with us.
I'm so excited to introduce my colleague and co-host for today, Julia Silgate.
Julia is a software engineer here at Posit.
Julia, I'd love to have you introduce yourself and share a little bit about your role, maybe
something you like to do outside of work too.
Great.
Yeah, hello, everyone.
I'm so glad to be here.
My name is Julia and I have worked at Posit for going on four years now.
And when I was first hired to, and so I work on one of the open source teams who focuses
on open source software and mostly R.
When I first came to then RStudio, I was on the Tidy Models team and I was on the Tidy
Models team for two and a half-ish years, something like that.
And it was a really exciting time to work on the Tidy Models team because it was just
kind of getting to a point where it really was mature enough to be used for people's
real machine learning and modeling workflows.
So that was really exciting.
From when I was hired originally, one of the things that was kind of on the table for like
something I would work with would be to work on the really applied and practical problems
of deployment of what you need to do with a model after you have trained it.
And so after being on the Tidy Models team for about a year, I kind of started digging
into that.
And maybe about a year after that, I transitioned to really working on that full-ish time, like
most of my emphasis, going to those kinds of deployment kinds of things.
And we also hired someone to, from the beginning, the plan was that, well, that was always to
make that something that worked for R and Python because the technologies that people
use to deploy models are really not very specific to what language you use to train
them in.
And so we really saw this as an opportunity to help people have choices and have a unified
approach at the end.
So the MLOps kind of project is one that is bilingual, that is R and Python.
So we use, we do just that, do both that.
So if you have ever used something like pins, me and my team work on that for R and Python.
The particular package that is focused on model deployment is Vetiver.
And then there are other kind of like handful of things that are a little lower level that
are kind of behind some of these things that we take responsibility for and maintain.
So I, you know, like most of the people who work on open source software, I do a mix of
writing actual code and then writing documentation and making materials so that people can know
how to use our tools.
So it's a little bit about me and what I do here and the kind of things that I focus on.
Awesome.
And what about something you like to do outside of work?
Ah, yes, yes.
So I would say that my, I don't have something like really exciting for this list.
It's like reading books, watching TV shows, doing things with my family, like nothing
really unusual or out of the ordinary.
I, um, I, uh, I am like, I almost pains me to admit this, but like, since the, um, sort
of disintegration of Twitter, um, I have read twice as many books this year as I did last year.
That's great.
It's good, but I always maintained, like, I was like, oh no, it doesn't affect me.
It's not taking up that much of my time, but I literally have read twice as many books this
year as I did last year.
And I read a couple just now that were very sort of spooky Halloween appropriate.
Um, one is called, one is like a really sort of warm, sweet ghost romance.
It's called the Dead Romantics, lovely.
And then one is like a sort of, um, uh, like a kind of gothy sci-fi kind of thing.
It's called Gideon the Ninth and it was also a delight, although more gory, not too much.
I can't handle a lot, but like, but like a little more grim.
I love that we can bring a little like Halloween theme into this week too.
Yeah.
It's fantastic.
I thought, um, Morris had a great call out to your YouTube channel as well.
And I thought it might be nice to just ask a little bit about that first, like what led
you to start creating some of those videos and can you tell us a little bit about them?
Sure.
So I, um, I think I started at first as like an experiment.
So I've, I've done blogging for a long time and, and like my initial sort of like motivation
for blogging was that I was actually transitioning into data science as a career.
So this was, this is maybe like 10-ish, eight-ish years ago.
And I, um, was trying to make a career transition before my, my academic background is like
physics and astronomy.
And I'd been doing, um, uh, I was in research for a long time.
Then I did work like at an ed tech startup and like, or an ed tech kind of company.
And I was like transitioning into data science and I thought, okay, I have this weird kind
of, um, background.
I don't like how, like, how are people going to know that I can do this job at all?
And so blogging was part of me kind of trying to have this idea of like a, um, uh, portfolio
to be able to, for, for my own sort of career growth kind of thing.
But it really led to so much that was good in my life and career.
And when I came here to work at then our studio, um, uh, tidy models was really at a point
where, um, was really at a point where, uh, like a, like a thing to deal with is like,
how do we show people how to use this?
How do we, um, like, how do we demonstrate it?
So I did it kind of as an experiment to be like, is this something that would be helpful
to people?
I honestly, like, it's interesting.
I'm like, I would always rather read something than watch a video about like personally,
like, I'm like, oh my gosh, just let me read it.
Why is everything a video?
I like, I like in my mid forties, so, you know, but, but at the same time, there were
times when I would like watch videos and I was like, oh, I didn't know you could do that.
Or like, oh, I never saw someone do that.
Like in the way they actually were writing code or the way they use their IDE or something
like that.
And so I'm kind of like, I kind of see the benefits of both video and for communication
and teaching and all that.
And, um, written, written and written is certainly my first choice.
And so you'll notice like all my screencasts, like I pop up a quick blog post, like I don't
put a ton of energy into it, but I always like, they're all, there's always a place
you can go to see it.
I also think, I also do that partly because I have had people talk to me about the, um,
the accessibility issues around video for communication.
And if you have something that is text, you know, that's HTML, like on a website, like
that's much more accessible to, um, uh, to people who need to use screen readers or,
you know, like have like, so I always try to do both.
I always try to do both, but I was, so at the beginning I was like, let's do an experiment.
Let's see.
And I think it really helped people see tidy models as something that was like, Oh, I can
try that.
Let me, let me do that.
Let me do that.
And so that would be kind of what went into the start of it.
And then, um, certainly as I've moved, depending on the balance of my time in every
given month, I don't always like my sort of goal is to like do two a month, but I don't
always hit two a month.
I really like having both the video and blog format too.
Cause if you get stuck in either one, you go to the other and kind of unblocks you.
Yeah.
But, um, I see, Ben, you had a question in the zoom chat.
Do you want to jump in here?
Yeah.
Hey Julia.
I'm curious, you've obviously been on long-term to value projects longer term.
So you're not able to see the benchmark is just really high.
And I'm, I have a couple that I'm working on as well, um, for an internal solution.
And it's hard to maintain the excitement also to create that, um, that vision for
the end goal and also to vet it out.
So I have like five different questions built into this.
Okay.
Let's see if I can remember them all.
Let's do them one at a time.
So the idea is, uh, the, the main one is how do you maintain excitement and
enthusiasm, but also maintain a clear scope over a long-term to value project?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
So this, um, um, is a great question.
I think that, I think that the number one thing is to, is to, you know, I, I know
you all have seen these kinds of pictures, but like, you can think about
like waterfall versus like MVP, right?
And you've seen those pictures of like making a bike or something.
And it's like, what do you do make first?
Do you make a wheel?
And you're like, I made a wheel here.
It's ready.
And then you make the seat.
Ah, here's a seat.
Or do you like, is the first thing that you make like a really simple skateboardy
thing that like someone can use to get somewhere and then you, you change and
change?
So I think, I think it is so important to make, to, to build in such a way that at
any given point, there's something that you can show and, um, uh, and say like,
here is the idea of what it's going to be.
And, and I'm going to improve it in this way and this way, and
then improve it in ways.
And it is true that sometimes this means, um, it can take longer to get to the
eventual thing, like the perfect bike kind of thing that you have, but the, um,
um, it is, I think so important for buy-in from stakeholders.
And it's so important for people seeing you as someone who ships and who, um, and
who gets things done and it's provide something useful that you get something
useful as early as possible, even if it is not the, the eventual way you're going
to do it.
Like, I, I think adopting that kind of mindset, it makes a huge difference in
how collaborative people think you are and how responsive people think you are.
Like, like your organization, how your, um, position with an organization, if
you are, if you can break, break things down, you know, if you, there, there, I
mean, there's a tons of books and blog posts about this.
I'm not saying anything crazy or new, but even for something statistical, you
know, like, um, can I do, can I give someone something that is dead simple
now, and then can I iterate, iterate, iterate, right?
Like if you were talking about a machine learning context, it's like, can I do
something that I almost even didn't have to train or that doesn't use machine
learning, right?
Like as an initial kind of like, here, it's going to look like this, it's going
to be this API, and right now what's serving it is, is something like so dumb,
like so simple, and then you do a model that you can train in a, you know,
literally 10 minutes, right?
And then you, you do that and then you, you try to improve it rather
than to get to something great.
Um, I think that that does have to be balanced, right?
With, um, uh, how much, um, you know, just time it takes to do projects, right?
But I think within the scope of whatever kind of project you're doing, if you can
really think about not trying to build it up in pieces so that the individual
pieces, like that they're not, that they're as useful as early as possible,
even if that means you build it simpler.
Um, I, so I think that is, that is important and that really helps the teams
I've been on in that, um, in that like maintaining motivation, because if
people are actually using even the very early versions of what you're doing, um,
you get feedback on it, you learn about what, you learn earlier what people are
actually looking for, um, and, uh, that, that kind of like versus that sort of a
very sort of siloed feeling of like, well, I'm just going to grind away for a
very long time on this big project.
But instead of that feeling like, what about this?
What about this?
Like getting feedback and can, I, I think for teams I have worked on has
been very motivating, very motivating.
Can I, can I ask that next one?
Go for it.
Yeah, go for it.
I love, I love that explanation too though, Julius.
So the, the ideas that come about, obviously you're not limiting yourself
to just like two ideas that you've had over the last six or seven years.
So how do you vet the ideas that you're coming up with and that you're seeing
with yourself and also with your team to make sure that they're, they're valid
and they're worth creating a vision around?
That's a great question.
So you're asking if, um, uh, uh, okay.
Yeah.
So I am, I am also a pretty big fan of, of like small experiments, you know,
like small experiments and hypotheses.
And this is, this is like related to the thing that we were just talking
about, about, um, um, deciding like getting to something, uh, show like
demo level, getting to something.
Um, you know, there's these like minimal viable project, you know, like these
are the kinds of words getting to something as early as possible, like
literally sometimes time boxing something to one afternoon, one hour even, right?
Like what can I get in one hour and can I show this to someone and get feedback
on it and see what resonates about it and what doesn't, um, I, so that I
would think is like one of the biggest, um, sort of tools I've used to evaluate
ideas or evaluate hypotheses.
Like if we try, um, something, is it, is it like, um, does it resonate?
Does someone want to see more?
Does someone want to have changes they want to suggest it?
Or are people kind of like, I don't know.
I, um, like I am, I am really biased towards like ship early and experiment
and don't have, and I does mean that like you, like, for me, it's like, I
have to have an attitude of like holding these things with a very light hand
that I'm like, I'm not super invested in this or this, like, um, I just, I
just want to know, like, like what do you think, what do you think?
Like that type of thing.
So, um, I, on the, on the positive, like example of this, I, that is how
Vetiver happened actually.
So, um, I think I was like, it's like MLOps as a tool feels so, or as a field
or idea feels like so big, a little hype driven and like what, like, Oh, we
can't like, we say we as positives, like, can we, can we play in that space?
Is that reasonable for us?
There are whole startups that that's nothing what they do.
And like, I had a hypothesis.
I was like, I think, I think the pieces are here in open source and
people are already like kind of bailing.
Why are these things together themselves?
If they're not like buying into like a startup product-y kind of MLOps thing.
What if we made like an open source thing that really used, uh, components,
pieces that are already there.
And so, so the initial version that I like showed someone was like, I think
we have most of what we need and we just need to make like the user experience
nice for this particular model-based use case.
And so that was, um, um, you know, like the initial sort of, I did actually
make the initial sort of thing I made was, um, was, was actually much more
shiny-like and ended up being like, Oh, in terms of like, uh, what it looked
like, like a server, uh, you know, like all this kind of thing, and I ended up,
I ended up, there ended up being a fairly big shift of like, Oh, okay.
No, no, no, we're not going to do it that way.
We're going to, um, uh, instead do like, uh, code generation, a fair amount of
code generation behind the scene kind of, so it kind of, I kind of shifted, but
there were things about the initial version I showed people that resonated.
They were like, okay, they want to do X.
And then there were things about it.
They were like, I don't know, like, uh, that's not making sense to me.
Or like, that seems too complicated.
Like, I think I should be simpler.
And so there were things that about it that helped me iterate towards
something, um, uh, and then we kind of like iterate, iterate, and like keep
going forward and like land on something that hopefully fits pretty, pretty well.
So I think that I, um, I probably lean less, I would say on my own opinions or
tastes, I'm like, I am sure this is right.
And I tend to, um, I tend to lean more on, let me like show things to people.
Let me do even user interviews, you know, like, let me like, uh, uh, use some of
those tools to, um, figure out how things need to happen.
Yeah.
I, I see there's a little conversation in the chat happening about this too.
And we can definitely jump onto other topics too, but I wanted to make sure
while that conversation's happening, we dive into, um, George, do you want
to add your follow-on question?
Yeah.
Um, I guess I've had the experience where people really don't want to see those
intermediate steps that just want that final thing, um, especially to your point
about like, you know, even, even in cases where it's a statistical, um, you know,
model or something that you're needing to deliver, sometimes that delivering a
simple thing is good enough.
I've had the experience where it's just not.
And, and I think it's because of perception of like stability or, um, you
know, maybe just the culture and so I don't know if you've ever come across
that, but it's like, it's basically like you have to sell the whole thing or else
it dies.
And I don't know if you, if you've ever had that experience and how you overcome
that.
Yeah.
So this, this experience where, um, someone is not, doesn't view it as important to
give feedback on an intermediate thing or to look at an intermediate thing or to, it
start integrating something that is, that is less complete or less mature or less
finished, um, into maybe the system that you're, that you're going for.
Um, so if it is something, if it is really something that you're like, I, I
need, I need feedback on these intermediate steps in order to get where I need to go.
Um, it, it can be helpful to, um, explain why, you know, like explain why we want
to, um, build things in a, with, with an inner, an inner of improvement.
You know, if you're, if you're talking to a, um, software engineer colleague,
they, they probably resonate with this idea, right?
Cause it's so common in software engineering, this idea of like, we do
something small, then we improve it.
You know, like we don't do something, we don't do something huge
and massive all at once, right?
Like we know that's more prone to errors.
It's more prone to not getting where you want to be all that.
So, so you can, so I have had luck with software engineer colleagues in
explaining this is like what you do, but for data work, you know, so I need you
to, um, I, I need to us to take these steps so that we end up in a
better place in the long run.
Um, I think that it would, you know, it may be interesting, George to, um, like
if you're having this kind of problem more with say, like a business stakeholder,
like less with an engineer and an engineering kind of stakeholder in your
data work and more like a business stakeholder, and I have had more
challenges and those situations and trying to, um, and, and trying to get,
uh, get those kinds of, um, answers.
So, so sometimes I have been in a situation where I just share and, um,
partly and as a, like, here's where it is.
And the next steps are X next week.
Here's where it is.
Next steps are Y.
If I do need feedback, if I do need like, um, I need something back the other
direction, um, it can be more challenging with business stakeholders, uh, to
understand that, but I, when I have had success with that kind of overcoming that
kind of obstacle, it has been through a fairly specific request or like a fairly
specific, like, um, I have a, you know, I have a prototype of, um, the statistical
results.
It's not, it's in fine, it's final version, but I need to ask you these questions
about it.
And if like either set a meeting or if it's async, like a question, a question B
question C, and then to like, when I've had success, it's been, it's been, they,
like, I really clearly understand why I need something.
It's like, the goal is this to get to the goal.
I need to know which of these things do, but that can be a more, cause there's
less of a culture, I think like in, in with engineers, there's more, there's
more of a norm and expect the culture around.
Like we do things iteratively to get a better, better result, but I have had
more, it has been more challenging there.
And then I think connecting it to like, what is the goal and saying like, this
is what I need has been how I have had success in that, but I have sometimes
been in a situation where I just feel like, am I just putting this out into the
void, you know, it's an interesting thought to think about how we get other
people to think iteratively as well.
Um, but who thought I, I see you had a question a bit earlier about tidy models.
Do you want to jump in?
And I can read the question.
If you want to jump in and add more context, feel free.
But the question was, how are the state of tidy models adaptations?
Are there enough adopters or users to please the tidy models,
teams, metric, or target?
Are there targets?
Yeah, that's a great question.
Um, so I think that, um, it is, uh, so when I have been, well, while I've worked
on open source projects, um, adoption, right?
Like is a, it's something that we.
That like open source teams watch that open source teams pay attention to and
decide, you know, like, um, well, it's like one piece of data we have to decide
how to invest and what to invest in.
Like if, um, you know, if you're, there are like two things we can invest in
our process, we invest in what, how do we prioritize them?
One of the things that goes into is, um, is things like adoption.
It's not the only thing because sometimes that's not the only
reason to, um, invest in something.
Um, uh, like I, I talk about this all the time, all the time, but you probably
are familiar with the idea of like the data science hierarchy of needs.
Monica Rogati wrote about this, like, like 2017 or 16 or something.
And at the bottom is like, you're collecting data at all.
And then one up is you're doing, you're doing analytics, things like dashboards.
One, like a level up from that is like, um, uh, is like, like, uh, like
statistical analysis, like, uh, maybe things like a T-test or maybe
something like a linear model.
And above that you're using machine learning.
And at the top is like, like AI, you know, kind of thing.
And, and you can think about that also in terms of like, like where, where
does model deployment go on that?
Like it's up pretty high.
Like people have to be using, um, have to be having models.
They need to have models that are deployed.
Like, like it's up pretty high in that hierarchy of needs.
So that, so that affects adoption numbers, right?
Like something like tidy models is never going to have the adoption numbers of
something like shiny because they're at kind of at like different places and
the data science hierarchy of needs.
Um, so, but at the same time, like if you're thinking about what should we
invest in, you want to make sure that when people look at tooling or a
language or, um, a company's products or something that when people look at it,
they can see that it can grow with them.
They can see that like, this is not a tool that like maxes out.
Um, or, or if you do decide to do that, you need to do it very carefully, right?
Like when people look at this tool, um, they're going to understand that
scope is limited and they can't use it beyond X level, you know, of
scale or maturity or whatever.
So there's different, there's different reasons.
I would say that in terms of adoption, um, that, um, the, the, when we look at
like who wants to come to Conf and learn about something or like who, um, if we
look at like who, like internally in our customers, like how often are people
asking about a tool or wanting like to know more about how to do something?
Like we, we, um, feel good about the investment that, um, has
been made in, in tidy models.
Certainly, certainly.
Um, when you think about, um, like if you were to go right now to GitHub and like
count up, right, like how many people, like how many things are using tidy
models versus something else, right.
Which, you know, you might, what would you compare it to?
Like, would you compare it to Carrot?
Would you compare it to Scikit-learn?
You know, like, like probably when you, if you were to compare those numbers,
you'd be like, oh, there's more projects that use Carrot because Carrot's been
around for like 15 more years or something like that, or Scikit-learn
many more projects for, for reasons that we understand.
But, um, I, so I think that if you ask the question, like are, is, is, is
Posit happy about the investment that has been made in tidy models?
Um, I think it really fits a need, like a need that people have.
And so, and in that sense has been really happy about the, um, investment.
Awesome.
Um, Julia, a question I wanted to ask you is I see a lot of things on LinkedIn
that are like, models are rarely deployed or, oh, teams spend all this
time developing something and it doesn't go anywhere, like why does that happen?
I think some of the time that's appropriate, like that's normal and
okay, um, because, um, one thing that's different about, uh, machine learning
as a practice compared to software engineering as a practice is you can
pretty much always get, you can pretty much always build something.
Like if you write out a spec for something, that's like, we need to
build X, like as a software engineer, let's write out a spec, let's, um, do
it, like you pretty much always can do that, you know, maybe it, maybe it will
take longer than you think or more investment than you think, but actually
that's not true when it comes to machine learning, because until you start the
process, you don't necessarily know that you can predict the thing that you need
to predict from the stuff that you have.
You, you may, you end up, may end up not having appropriate data.
You may end up, um, uh, it is not good enough.
Like the results you get are not good enough to predict that
you think that you want to.
Um, so it, uh, so machine learning as a practice is it's more iterative.
Uh, it's more exploratory even, you know, I'm not, we're not even talking
specifically about like exploratory data analysis, but as a, as a practice, it is
more exploratory than say, we're going to build a feature, we're going to build a
feature and it's, it is, um, there, you know, you can be less certain ahead of
time that the, whatever model you're going, you're trying to do, you can
actually fit, especially within whatever is needed.
So I think that it happens because that that's a big reason why it happens is
that that is the nature of data science, nature of machine learning.
There's a really great, um, paper.
Um, I'm going to see if I can find it real, um, quick that talks about this.
Um, that, um, yes.
Okay.
I found it.
It's called operationalizing machine learning and I'll put the link here and
it talks about, it talks about this in the context of machine learning, especially,
and really just says, this is, this is why, like, this is why it's because
of the nature of, um, of this work.
So that's what big reason.
I think another reason is that it, um, often when people are like working on
machine learning projects in their org, they're bumping up against the maturity
of where they've been before, where their org has been before.
And so people's, um, uh, don't have as much of the muscle memory and the skills
about how to do these things, how to deploy them.
So that's, I think, so the biggest, I think big reason is like, it is the
nature of machine learning as work.
The next piece is that often when people are doing these things, it's new to their
org or newer, um, they're, they're, they're exercising new skills.
And the other thing I think that really contributes to this is, um, you all, you
almost always are ending up collaborating across functions.
So most typically, like you are needing you, if you're a more statistical person,
you are now needing to collaborate with someone who's a more OPSI person.
And people work in different ways.
Teams, um, don't sit together.
It's like, like, like people end up with like, Oh, that will never work.
You know, like that will never work because of X.
And like, what, like, what can both sides do to actually make
something work if it needs to happen?
So I think those are like the real reasons why this kind of thing happens.
Thank you.
I see Patrick, you had asked a question that I think kind of
follows along to this nicely.
If you want to jump in here too.
Thanks Rachel and Julia.
Hi, it's good to see you.
Uh, yeah, this is, this is very much what you were just talking about and sort of
references back to the data science hierarchy of needs piece too.
So I'm just wondering like what advice would you give to a team or an organization
who's struggling to go from, okay, we have a model and it fits well enough.
And it's sort of doing what we want it to do, uh, to having a model in production
that we're using regularly and that we, that we depend on that it feels like a
very big change to me, uh, psychologically for the team or the organization to go
from, you know, yes, we can do this to, uh, yes, we, we are relying on this thing
and it is in production as important to us.
So, so what advice do you have for, for people who are
struggling to make that step?
Yeah.
So I think one thing is to acknowledge, to understand that you, you as a team or
some part of the team is going to need to, um, gain some new skills is going to need
to learn how to do some new things and to try to make space and understand that,
that, that kind of, that kind of change is, is coming and is needed.
So this is, um, for example, uh, you know, you know, like maybe it's important for
someone on your team to start in, in like kind of learning, like what does our org
need if I were to employ a model, like what is going to work for our org?
Uh, so this is now working with maybe people who are DevOps-y, maybe
people who are, I sit in IT, like, like what do, so, so what are
the new skills we need to, um, add?
Uh, so that's, that's one thing is to acknowledge that if you have been
very statistically focused and it's time to deploy a model, how can we make space
for some proportion of our team to, to gain some of those, um, some of those skills?
I think also to not be afraid of some of those tools and skills and to, um,
understand that like, that's how you, um, scale the impact of your work.
So, so for example, like to learn, um, you know, about Docker, right?
Like to learn about, um, um, uh, like, like what, like what in your,
how do things work in your org?
If your org has like a, like a certain cloud platform that they, that you, that
you all use, like to start to, to not so much be like, okay, yes, well, we're the
data people that they, we live, work in this environment, but to start to kind
of push again, like to find how do I go?
How do I then take that next step?
Also, I think doing things in as small of way as possible.
So like you can, um, if you're going to deploy some kind of a model as, um,
like, like as an API, it's like, it doesn't have to the first time you do
it, be the huge scalable, can go to infinity kind of API.
Like you can first do a, um, API at all.
And then you show you, you know, like a software engineer or
DevOps-y kind of coworker, like, look, look, if we serve this in this way,
then we, you can get predictions back in this way and then have a discussion
about like, how can we start to, to scale that up?
So I think the first thing is to think about, um, the skills that people need.
Someone needs to gain a little bit.
The second thing is to think about, um, infrastructure and like,
like your, the tools you use now, how are they different from
the tools that are being there?
Like, what can you learn about your internal specifics?
And then also going back to that, like iterative, like do something as small
as possible to show and be like, okay, how can we make, take that, take that next step.
Got it.
Thank you very much, Julia.
I appreciate that.
And thank you for building all the tools that, uh, make
that stuff possible and easier.
Uh, and yes, uh, fear of Docker sounds like a great horror movie.
I know.
I also, um, I just shared in the chat too, if it's helpful for anyone, especially
with this conversation right now, yesterday, Simon Couch from our team led
a demo using tidy models and posit team.
And so it's a nice walkthrough as well.
I just put that link in the chat.
That looks so great.
I'm really excited.
Simon was able to do that.
Yeah, it was really fun.
Uh, there are a lot of people there too, which is great.
Um, an anonymous question that came in was if only, or what is this?
If only there was a good way to share these data science endpoints.
Do you have any advice on deploying and managing these kinds of outputs?
Yeah.
So I think that it is really important to find the, an easy way to, um, do this in
a, um, like, like be able to have an MVP, to be able to have a demo to, and
then, then you can work from there.
So if you, for those of you who are customers or try having, like trying
to make a argument around it, like that is exactly what Connect does.
Like Connect is a way that you as a data scientist can, can deploy
something with one function, with one button kind of click.
Like it really, it really lets you have like a, a, like a playground.
And then depending on the, um, it really reduces the barrier to that
first kind of like, ah, I am serving an API, like here it is.
If you are, if you are in a situation where that's not reasonable for your
I think that the, um, then, then you are in a situation where you need to like
have a conversation with your organization.
It's like, well, since we don't have a tool that does this, um, then you are
asking me to gain some of that skill.
Like, are you making space for that?
Like, like, is that what we're going to do?
Because if it's not like a product kind of thing, like Connect that really is
built for you as a, as like, you are the one it is built for, right?
Like you as a data scientist to be able to deploy an API, publish an app,
all these kinds of things, then you're like, okay, then I need to be able to
make, like, then you need, like the org needs to acknowledge that you're asking
me to gain some of those skills.
And so I think, so Plumber has a pretty nice set of documentation for
like how to deploy Plumber APIs.
And, uh, they have, you know, Docker containers that are ready to go.
They have, I think, um, um, droplets, um, like, like a way to like, you can
deploy it and, uh, shoot, I forget.
What's the, what's the place that has droplets?
I'm blanking.
Um, the cloud provider.
Uh, I can't remember.
DigitalOcean.
That's right.
It, that's right.
So it's like, okay, do you need to deploy a Plumber API?
Here's how you can just take it to DigitalOcean, which does have fairly,
um, good documentation, ways to, ways to get, um, ways to get started.
So, um, the, it is harder if you're not able to kind of lean on a product
that's made for you, you know, like as a person who uses Python or R and
wants to deploy an API, you then are in a situation where your org is asking
you to do, to do, do it yourself maybe, or to talk, to talk about it.
So the Plumber, you know, or, or fast API, you know, like, like there's
documentation there, like, how do you actually get fast API from running on
your computer to running somewhere else?
Um, there's a lot of ways to answer that question.
And some of them are quite easy and built for you as a data science user persona.
And some of them mean you really do have to start going
into those more, um, Opsy areas.
I will say if you are a person that combines like statistical know-how
with like Opsy know-how, like that's killer career wise.
So, so I mean, go for it.
If like you're interested and, and you have a little bit of the space to
start gaining those skills like that, that's fantastic.
Like that, that, like, those are people who's like that set of skills combo of
skills is like super valuable in the market.
You know, when you hear about like, oh, data scientists, you know, like, Oh, I'm
so annoyed, it's like data scientists never ship data scientists have terrible
software engineering practices, like the coding practices.
So with you, if you are someone who's like, no, no, I can do that.
I know how to do that.
I can learn.
I can, I have learned X.
I'm in the process of learning Y.
Like, like that's, that's wonderful for your career.
So that's like a sort of look on the bright side, like silver
lining kind of situation.
If you know, like, if you are, if that is true for you.
Thank you.
I'm going to jump over to some, a few questions from a bit earlier.
Lisa had asked, well, she's taking the dogs on a walk, so I will read it.
I'm wondering how the team finds time to respond to questions on Posit
community and other message boards.
Is that part of the job?
I'm so thankful you and others from Posit do it.
Absolutely.
I, we consider it part of our job.
So I think that, um, uh, and I, I would say for the teams I have been on, we
absolutely, um, have considered it.
Um, part one, one, I'm just going to one, one, one second.
Awesome.
Thank you so much.
Um, so absolutely, absolutely.
The teams I have been on consider it part of our job.
I do think it depends on the maturity of the project that you're working on.
So for example, um, um, Hadley has told me like when he was first working on GG
plot two, he answered every stack overflow question about GG plot two, or
at least he looked at it.
He looked at it.
He made sure that, and because it's really valuable source of feedback, like
it's a really valuable source of like, is that it is actually good for you, but
now GG plot two is very mature and there's many people who answer questions
on stack overflow about GG plot two.
And so Hadley doesn't do it anymore.
So, um, I have set up like RSS feeds for positive community questions for stack
overflow that come to like a place that I check, like I have it going to an RSS
feed reader and so I, for, for, for like, I literally, every time there's a question
on stack overflow that's tagged tidy models, I look at it.
I look at every single one of them and you know, sometimes someone has beat me
to answering it and that's fine unless they answer it wrong, you know?
And so that's totally fine, but I just want to make sure anyone who comes and
is having a problem, we know what it is.
We know what it is.
It's really interesting working on open source software from the perspective
of like, how do you decide what to do and what the problems are?
Because you know, lots of you, I think probably work in a situation where
you have data, right?
That's why you're hired.
There's data that exists and you use that data to improve some product or to
like change something when you're working on open source software, just by the
nature of it, we don't have data about usage.
We don't have data about like what most common errors are.
So you kind of have to find proxies for that.
And I think things like questions on positive community questions on stack
overflow, certainly GitHub issues.
Like these are the proxies that we have for what problems are people having.
And so I think it is absolutely yes.
Part of the job of like figuring out what people's problems are.
And like I said, this especially applies to early maturity projects that like
that's, that it's in fact, incredibly valuable data that you can use to decide
what it is that you need to do.
It definitely, you have to have, you have to have like a certain mindset.
If you're going into this, because people ask, it turns out people ask the
same question over and over.
No, but like the fact is like, either you need to, if someone's that, if you
are finding multiple people are asking the same question over and over, you
should fix that.
You should fix that or better document that or like make it easier for people
to like not have to ask that question anymore, but definitely, definitely if
you're in, you know, that's that part of the job of like, okay, let me go
through here, here, here, like all the questions and feedback.
Let me know.
Let me keep in mind.
That person is frustrated.
That person is having a problem.
Even if I think, oh my gosh, I've answered this five times.
They, they have not had an answer in five times.
So it's, you know, it's definitely a, the dynamic there is one to, to be aware
of, I think.
I think it's a good reminder for whatever role you're in.
When people keep asking you the same question, it might be, or maybe there's
a reason.
Yeah, right.
Exactly.
Okay.
I know this time goes by super quickly.
So I'm going to try and rapid fire through a few questions, but Ashley, I
see you just asked one in the chat.
Want to jump in?
Oh, yes.
Sorry.
I'm ready for jumping in, but no worries.
Julia, love your work.
I was wondering, I was looking into your learner tidy models from the learner
package, and I've really taken a liking to some of the packages that were
created, especially this one.
But I know it probably hasn't been updated in, you know, two years.
So I was wondering if there's plans to, if you had plans to revisit it?
I, so that, if you look at who contributed to that, you'll see that a lot of work
happened during one summer.
And it was because we had a, an intern, an intern who came in and like really
worked on that.
And I think the work, I am really proud of the work that we did there.
And I think, I mean, if you are running into a problem, like where something
isn't working with current versions, please do report a, please do report a,
like a GitHub issue, a bug somewhere, because we want to make sure that
continues to work.
I think, I think like the, those interactive learner, you know, kind of
things can be so effective.
And actually I remember back to when I started learning R, I, R was not my
first programming language.
Like I came from like a, like a lower, like a C background, like a lower.
So I had like computational background, but I was like, okay, I want to learn
this R thing.
Seems pretty cool.
I actually, but the thing that I love the most was actually Swirl, which, which
has, I don't even know if it's still maintained or not, but like, this is
like eight, 10 years ago.
And my, what I loved about it is you were actually in the IDE, interactively
doing stuff and learner has that same feel, right?
Like that same kind of feel and is such an effective way because really, really,
really like we learn by doing, we learn by like just doing, doing, doing, doing.
So it's so, it's so effective.
So I'm very proud of it.
We, so I would say that on the, on the Tidy Models team specifically, what has,
what has been a focus I would say lately is more the Tidy Models website.
So if you, for example, like if you go to the Tidy Models website and go over to
learn, you're, you'll see there's, there's quite a lot of stuff there.
And so there's been more emphasis on, on, on things that are, that are more
like content you read, content you read versus content that you interact with.
Partly because the barrier is so low, you know, like the Tidy Models, this
TidyModels.org was recently moved over to being a Cordo site.
It was originally actually technically a BlogDown site.
It wasn't a blog, but it was technically a BlogDown site.
And now it's a Cordo site.
And so the, so that makes the barrier so low to like making a new article.
It's so like straightforward to do that.
So I would say there are, there are not concrete current plans to add more things
to learn Tidy Models, which is the LearnR thing.
But I think it's an interesting question to, to examine, right?
Like what is, what are the really effective ways for people to, to learn?
The other thing that we have done that, oh wait, no, nevermind, nevermind.
Yes.
So yeah, the I would say that that's, I'm glad you brought that up because I don't
think we have currently, current plans to add more.
But I think it's an interesting question.
And quick question.
And I only asked that one cause I love the LearnR package.
I'm actually creating my own little course using LearnR for, to help introduce
people to R and my field, Industrial Organizational Psychology.
And I actually reached out to some people at Posit.
And I was wondering, because right now it still runs on, only on R Markdown.
And I think that it would maybe, you know, I don't know if anyone's looking
into moving it into Posit.
It seems like it's still main, so not Posit, Cordo.
Cordo.
Yeah.
Seems like it's still being maintained, but I'm not sure if there was any plans
just because I, you know, there's a couple other people I know that made
LearnR courses and it's so, you know, it helps to bridge that gap all, you
know, also, and something I encourage new learners to do is to learn in R
Studio, which is also why I love Swirl.
And that also helps the barrier as well.
So that'd be curious.
Yeah.
I am not super connected to that team, so I don't have a concrete answer.
Um, uh, yeah, I don't know.
I don't know how much, how possible it would be to do that in Cordo, but
that's a really interesting idea as well.
I mean, it's a great point.
Actually, I can connect with you on LinkedIn and maybe try and find the
right person internally to share that feedback with too.
Yeah, that would be great.
Thank you so much.
Um, Javier, I see you had a question a little bit earlier.
I'm seeing a lot of love on that question.
Do you want to jump in here?
Thanks, Rachel.
Um, yeah, Julia, I, I joined late, but always a fan of, uh, your work.
So I just, one of the questions I had was we, like, I work with a lot of
really talented kind of diverse data scientists or MLEs and we're writing
internal packages all the time.
Some of them, in my opinion, would be incredible if we could over, you
know, open source, but there's a sort of, you know, concern that we work
with member data that there's HIPAA and PHI and PII, none of it really
making its way to packages, but there is still that concern that somehow
there could be leakage or, you know, but in, in general, I've struggled
trying to convince kind of the topmost level folks to allow us to, um, you
know, open source some packages.
Not, I didn't know if you had any recommendations there.
Yeah.
That is, that is so interesting.
And like, that is such an interesting question because people like sometimes
leadership in a company, like the risk, the risk feels too big compared to
whatever, like, they're like, oh, why do you want to do that?
You know?
So I think the way, so sometimes you work at orgs that really value open
source, like value contributing to open source, you know, like, so my most
immediate place I worked before here was Stack Overflow and Stack Overflow,
um, uh, had an ecosystem, like had an ethos of like, it's normal to
contribute to open source.
And because actually, so, and before even data scientists got there, they
already had that ethos.
Like there were, there was, it's largely a, like a.net C sharp kind of shop.
And like some of the, like, like some of the most widely used, um, like logging
libraries, some of these things were made by Stack Overflow devs and it was open
source.
And so they already had kind of this ethos.
And so when I showed up and I'm like, oh, um, we're going to do this and this,
and I, um, like I want to open source this piece and they're like, yep, sure.
You know?
So that's the kind of situation where people already have buy-in.
But if you work in like healthcare or you work in finance or you work in
something that has like higher, um, higher constraints around, um, uh, like,
like data privacy, then like a tech company where everything is kind of
public anyway, it's like all on the, you know, at Stack Overflow, it's like
there's, there is user data that you don't want linked, but so much of it is
public, like there's a public kind of ethos.
It was like different.
If you don't work in that, I think, um, I think the thing to do is to like
clearly lay out why they should do it at all.
And I think, I think there's a cut, there's like, why should they let you
like, let you spend time on that?
And I think one is, um, uh, one is that it can, like, depending, you know,
and then this market, maybe this is not so compelling, but like for recruiting,
like if you are in an org and you're like, we, maybe we work in like a field
that's viewed as a little stuffy or boring, but you're like, no, we can show
people that we, um, the kind of work we do by having, uh, an open source library
or two, and you can say like, it can be used as a recruiting tool to show people
the kind of tools that I'll be using with the kind of like way.
So, so there's like recruiting.
There is, um, uh, like I know Pharma has just gone through like a big kind of
like, is it like, if we all band together and make these tools, we can, we can
use them then in our compliance, like, like how we need to report kinds of things.
That's exactly what I would love to do too.
Yeah.
Like sort of like, uh, you know, get all the brains together in the healthcare
insurance space for the greater good.
Yeah.
So I think, I think like the, the, the, like the, there has to be a, uh, like
a compelling case made and then also like how, like, how are you going to make
sure, like, like what, like how, what processes are going to be in place so
that their, their reasonable concerns about data privacy are addressed, you
know, like, so I think it's definitely tougher when you are in, when you are
in a, um, uh, industry that has high compliance standards.
Um, uh, but I do think the Pharma example is the one of like, why, like how it can
work out, how it can work out to make things better actually overall for everyone.
I mean, those people are all like competitors.
I'm always so amazed.
I'm always so amazed at what they, how they collaborate.
It's pretty cool.
Me too.
Shout out to R and Pharma.
For real.
It's been happening this, this week to the conference.
Um, Julia, do you have time for one more question?
Do you have a meeting?
I do.
I don't.
Okay.
Oh, you can stay and hang out forever.
Alan, I realized I had missed a question you asked from a bit earlier.
If you're still on, do you want to jump in?
Uh, yeah, I am.
Um, I, I got to run also, but also I'll drop in my question and then, and then
I'll, I'll listen and then I'll run.
Thanks.
Thanks, Julia and everybody.
Um, I'm really curious, Julia, if there are conscientious decisions about
things that don't fit in tidy models, either because of like statistical
weirdness or niche or software engineering complexity, curious about
the kinds of decision-making about things that, that just don't belong
and, and, and how you sort of put those fences up around the framework.
Yes.
So there for sure are.
And I, so here's where I will admit.
That, um, I actually don't have a super strong statistical background.
Like I, like my background is physics and astronomy.
I'm not a statistician.
Like a lot of you, I literally have never taken statistics course
in through my whole, my whole education.
So some of this, but absolutely.
So I'm fairly self-taught when it comes to these kinds of things.
So some of these things that I'm about to say, um, I would say
we're not necessarily my call.
Um, but we're calls that I'm like, ah, makes sense.
Yes, totally.
Totally.
We're going to do this.
Um, I like, there's a specific example in one of the tidy models package
that is called, um, that is called the, uh, that is called our sample.
And it is the package for, for resampling, for resampling data.
And the, um, uh, there is a, there is a, uh, let me see if I can find it really
quick, there's a, um, there's a certain resampling method that is certainly
something you can do, but, um, it actually has pretty bad, bad characteristics.
It has pretty bad.
Um, uh, when, when it comes to, um, uh, deciding like how it is that you are
going to do, um, resampling for a model or something like that, it does
not, um, have good characteristics.
It's, it's, uh, I think it's, it's leave one out, leave one out cross
validation and it, um, uh, they're, they're pretty bad.
And so we actually do have, um, uh, guardrails set up and some of the other
tidy models packages that if you have a leave one out cross validation, um, set,
it won't let you tune with it.
It like won't let you tune with it because it's like pretty much always a bad idea.
Another example is like, um, uh, when you're doing machine learning or modeling,
like, um, often what you'll see in a, like, you'll see like, um, let's walk
through how to do this and then we're going to predict using the training sets.
And then we're going to, I'm going to, I'm going to, I'm going to, um, compute
some kind of, um, measure some kind of, um, um, metric using the training sets.
And that is almost certainly going to cause, um, uh, like that that's going
to be an overly optimistic result.
So it's actually kind of hard to do that in tidy models.
Like, and then we still, we get requests being like, I need to, I want
the metrics on the training set, but that, um, uh, so definitely there
are these, there are these, um, uh, guardrails and, and tidy models was
built with many of these guardrails in mind to try to like keep, help you to do
the right thing and make it hard to do the wrong thing.
I think it happens less when it comes to software.
Uh, like, like, oh, we can't do that.
Like that is like pretty much, we are always willing to try to do
something if we think it's a good idea.
So I think it happens much more on the statistical side than the, um, then,
then the actual like software side, because with, with enough creativity
and energy, it's pretty much, it's pretty much possible to do anything.
That's a great question though.
Awesome.
Yeah.
The same, I mean, it's like the same thing applies like in vetiver.
Like, um, we, we have, there's quite a lot of guardrails in there.
They think happens even in like the tidy verse, you know, like it tries to keep
you from doing something that we almost certainly is a bad idea, you know?
Awesome.
Thank you.
Making it hard to do the wrong thing is such a great framework and
such a good way to put it.
Um, thank you.
This has been great.
I got to run.
Bye everybody.
Thank you.
Thank you so much.
I know we're a little bit over here, but thank you so much, Julia, for, for
joining us today and sharing your experience and everything that you do
for the community as well.
So nice to see so many of you here today too.
Yeah.
Thank you all so much for coming and thank you for having me.
Absolutely.
Have a great rest of the day, everybody.
Bye.